gcode step gcode step left
right
okay
so
buddy way need to okay so this half of
my body wants to
um dude screw this I'm just going to
Nuke all of
this
okay delete all of it so everything we
did yesterday I put it on GitHub so it
shouldn't
matter um we just need to reexport the
files again I am going to keep this
though so just for everyone to remember
what we're working on is this
paper oh I have the PDF somewhere but oh
wait I think I have the PDF in the repo
do I well not anymore
um and it's basically has this genius
Insight where you take your step file
you run it through a slicer and you get
gcode and then you run that you you take
the movements in the G-Code and you
sweep that uh
profile so uh let's just go to CAD do
onshape and then uh this is what we
wanted to look at but I actually want to
just take one part X
Port okay so this is going to be um
single
ring okay so we're just going to do uh
test step files so these are just going
to be a bunch of test files so now we
want to
um now we want to uh take this and or
wait this and this can you I don't know
let's just roll it back to here and I'm
pretty sure now if I export this this is
uh two
rings and wait did
it save as test
step save
as okay and then now we can roll it
forward and we want to export this which
is
um two wait let's just do this actually
Square
[Music]
ring okay now now that we have a couple
of step step files to test what we're
doing is
um we are
uh let's let's just make this py python
Julia
uh so this is going to
be
um okay we're just G to do Julie because
Julie is so much easier to just write
something simple I don't like python I I
dude yesterday I I did a project for my
for the
fam
and uh I could couldn't I couldn't uh
stream it unfortunately because
uh uh there was a bunch of
data that just can't be
shown and it'd be too hard to not leak
it but um damn dude I was going in on
the coding bro I didn't like At first I
was just trying to get GPT to write it
and I was like let's just let it do it
but then I was running into all these I
was just so sick of like so I'm just
like you know what let's just lock in
and do it ourselves and bro it's good to
see that I still have it okay so
um we really got to get this cop dude
there's so many little things that I
have to do that I keep forgetting
about
um how to do this
in Julia
all right can we just try this except
for so we just need
to um
um it's going to do something cool okay
so
uh okay so
um all actually should we do it like
maybe we should do it actually at
uh at a so uh
tests then we do like uh in tests we
make a a folder called two
rings and then you put this in here and
then you put uh so then you delete this
then you make a folder in
here single
ring um
um okay so let's just do this for
now project structure is uh
test dude why am I overdoing this I'm
I'm being cringe okay but I do want but
this this is fine this as is is fine but
if I kept going down this road it's just
going to be cringe so then uh test
name then in
this
has
uh um
okay so let's see this ex output dur
slice debug slice
file okay so let's just put that
in uh we need this to be
and this is going to be
[Music]
um or let's just do yeah two
rings
uh oh wait it has to create it first
right
okay then we make this uh
nice
perfect and then we get G-Code okay so
that so that's just a little thing about
how you use
um how you use the the bamboo
Slicer in
uh in from the command line and then it
just happens to be a detail that I'm
doing in Julia but so now the next thing
is
um parsing the g code okay so now
okay so now
uh all right so there we go so now what
we want to do is um
filter uh starts
with
oops okay wait
oh okay
great wait can you or functions together
like
this no you have to use a Lambda but
it's fine
starts with
takes do you do double ores yeah I think
you do or
um wait
what
wait
oh wait what the hell is going on okay I
don't
care wait wait actually why doesn't that
work okay great so now what we want to
do is take
map X2
[Music]
uh first of split x
x wait hold
on
okay uh
[Music]
first cir split
wait we don't even need to do
this
oh what oh
yeah dude wait why don't I just put this
in my
startup it's so annoying
wait
what think you have to do
this okay
um
great okay so G1 is the most common
um what's an
m73 Marlin gcode this is what I look for
and I just go to
[Music]
m73 oh yeah of course right does that
uh is there a one
ARG map function
wait does
it what what associativity does it
have wait gf1
to
split
okay wait can I just say map x equals X
or Y to
map is that a
thing so wait so can I do this now
that's so sick dude why isn't one AR map
a
thing one ARG map is so useful
man I'm G to put that in bro I bet I
invalidate literally everything in the
planet but I got to do it that [__] is
sick
I forgot how absolutely I mean I don't
want to brag but like lowkey I'm kind of
cooked at this
[__] I love that dude I love I love
Julia for this like simple [__] like
that but like the thing about Julia
that's so much better than Mathematica
the math is [__] slow dude if I Tred
to do this million row parsing and and
and dat it just like it just crashes
because there's too many expressions and
symbols like oh God in theory mathematic
is just perfect but then you got to just
rewrite everything everything fast and
it's
like whatever so
um okay so we have this and now we want
to just
um isn't there just
a or not callable yeah so this is where
you just do map print
line and you actually want want to do
this
too that's
perfect okay all right so let's just
let's just read through all of
[Music]
them okay so
106 fan speed
acceleration 28 see that's a gcode
what's
28 goes
home
104 hot
end and then these are all ones but I
want to see what the G Codes are okay
let's just do them all 205
205 is set Advance setting that's great
that's that's the thing about this
G-Code stuff it just makes no freaking
sense bro
what see and you just hope to God that
um I don't know
does does bamboo use
Marlin no but slicer
but do they at least agree that all the
G-Code things mean the same thing that's
what I don't understand like if I were
to run my own gcode try to write my own
G-Code for my printer like all this
whatever I don't uh
okay which one should we do
109 wait for hot end temperature all
right isn't there another G g21
units
m84 dude I can't I'll never remember
these there's no m84 that's exactly what
I'm talking about
though bamboo
m84 optional break
H
190 wait for bed temperature and g90 g90
is what absolute units or something I
know that one my class went over that
one absolute okay so that's the G that's
all of the g-codes in this one
so um that's
great uh now we want to uh okay so now
we all we need to do is take all of the
g1's
so
uh I'm not going to write all that
out
uh filter
starts
with
G1
um okay so yeah this is the 700 of these
ones
so uh how how do we want to do this
let's
um let's just write all of these to
right lines is that not a thing dude
right lines FN
V
equals oh my
God write this function that basically G
takes a file name and a VEC of strings
and just writes it to a uh a a
file dude it's always so
BOS that's probably the best way to do
it wait what's wrong
oh
okay okay so now I have this extension
that helps me read these so this
retracts it this goes somewhere I don't
know what Z5 goes to Z5 and then it set
it it just starts off with the feed
rate okay and then it just does like an
approach or something I don't know why I
would do
this yeah so okay
so write a
okay write a function that takes all
these G G codes and um and basically
makes a VC of a
struct that uh contains basically the
state of the and you can assume that g90
has been called so it's in absolute
mode
um and then also stores whe yeah it just
stores this data
dude it it writes the it
like it's kind of sad but compare my
freaking Julia code well except for this
this is nasty but like you just do clean
[__] and then this is just
like so
insane but I don't actually
care okay so
uh okay so
um okay
wait is this right though because for
like the E flag isn't if the extruder
happens it only does it once it doesn't
keep doing that where so it doesn't
persist
so shouldn't it actually go back to zero
after the it should not remember the
last
or see I feel like it knows what what
I'm talking
about oh wait but that's its actual
position
oh that's weird to think about is that
true though
because can we look for all the
e um see that's what's weird right is
like okay can we just go to a G1 in
Marlin uh
AOS
EOS see that's cuz that one feels like
relative I'm confused because X and Y
look like absolute values but
e looks like a relative
value where is it set that e is
however in many 3D printing firmwares
there's an exception where G and the ex
okay so we can just assume that the
extruder is in relative mode by default
because it just doesn't that doesn't add
up at the end these would be summing up
otherwise it's just move moving back and
forth so sometimes I get a little bugged
out that I'm confused but then I
remember no these things aren't that
complicated it's definitely doing that
so
um so okay so yeah so can we
um interestingly that it it's
interesting it modulates the uh the feed
rate
wait what is the feed
rate oh yeah dude I for some reason this
is so funny for some reason whenever I
see feed rate all I can think of is like
feeding the extruder but you feed rate
is the just the speed just the overall
speed movement rate
yeah it's it makes total sense that so
yeah so feed rate I think I went over
this yesterday and just totally blinked
out on it again because it's so for some
reason feed I feel like I'm feeding
something and I just Clues my brain in
wrong okay so great so
um there was literally when we tallied
this
up
uh oh wait
oh
wait I forgot what all these are but um
I remember this is progress 73 but yeah
it seems like literally it's just a very
simple
program it's so funny dude cuz Okay like
whatever um
all right so I think we're good
right for
so
okay write a function that splits the uh
g-codes into basically what is it A V A
V
of POS positions or something basically
I want within each when within a single
layer of a print you have a bunch of
paths that are potentially disconnected
where the um printer is extruding
material uh and so we want for each
layer we want all of the
paths I feel like that should be kind of
clear
wait hold on let's see you
can with
Extrusion yep perfect it does it exactly
how I wanted it to and that's all good
so now we can just take this split
paths uh I don't know if we actually
need
that okay split paths wait is it what
does this take yeah yeah
okay blit Paths of
G's that now that's interesting oh wait
no these
are wait so yeah if we
do P's
one one right it's one command
oh that and that's the first one that's
where that's when it does that little oh
yeah can we see that actually cuz that's
got to be in there right like
um is this moving across
maybe that thing is not I feel like
there's no way that's true
though
um wait is this this is the G's we want
this so I'm trying to find out where it
[Music]
um where does it do that little
thing but wait just stores the
strings I guess group wasn't the right
word instead we just want
to get the XY from
this from
oh we need to store some State and then
we just want to get the XY from all that
so
we presumably you start off at zero it
actually doesn't matter it doesn't
matter you can just assume it yeah so
then it goes to
8492 I guess what state do you actually
need to remember you don't need to
remember that
you're yeah you just say if I'm the
first guy in the
list
uh I mean this is all this is all we
really need right
so so what is the first thing going to
look like the first profile that we're
going to sweep in freead is
this and so whatever I'm just going to
write actually I
don't write the the shortest
possible
Julia there I can't do this write the
shortest possible simplest Julia code
that
um that instead of that takes a path and
it extracts the uh XY
coordinate wait do all of these have
start with XY
okay
um oh my
God write something to check that every
oh wait but I know that's not true let's
go to
G's this one this one unless it's a feed
rate thing I don't know why they don't
just put the feed rate
no I guess it makes sense to put it in a
different
block and then their compiler probably
just notices that if
it's I I don't know I don't know how
it's outputting it or
whatever okay so um
okay whatever
just okay that's that's good let's just
do that
okay I don't really care now we have the
so this is for a single path right
what did I give
it
PS2 so is it a vea ve
or Okay so
I don't think this is right
because okay let's look at this thing
again so what does it need to
be so what is the first
path you don't want to assume that how
do you know when it changes layers is I
guess the question
wait let's just look for Z
then here it
is so I'm wondering what you could do
because you kind of have to know that
this
like
you lay
layer you have kind of have to know that
this is Layer
Two can we go to
the this is going to be
um Square ring I think I think that's um
wait wait we need to
uh wait what am I looking for I'm
looking
for that the z's are literally always
that they have to be but let's just make
sure uh I don't want to overwrite all
this stuff
um okay
that's okay that's good so we just need
to make this
uh okay
we can take
this the
top
um okay let's just write that to GG's G
wait we can call this
G's
Square okay so
Z 2 4 wait
what did I
what I think I think I messed up the I
think I messed up
something oh yeah dude I'm dumb as hell
okay wait it didn't do it why didn't it
do
it wait wait
oh so easy to get that wrong I need to
just fix that so
we just want all of
[Music]
these and I don't really care about the
tally oh wait we can just take the tally
out oh wait we we didn't we still didn't
do this
right okay this is so stupid man I'm
dumb all right so we're just going to do
what is it
called okay so this only had
wait
GF oh yeah
wait um
uh what is g g I think this is just G
the
string what am I doing bro
so this is just going to
be I don't know what the hell I'm up to
bro this is such a waste of my time
dude okay
okay but this just needs to
be
gz oh
wait right these are the G
ones this needs to
be
jeez
okay so this should be right now Z that
took way too long bro so slow 4.
6.81 okay so we could just assume that
they're always divisible is there a
divides
function how do you do it
the
bar
um
uh oh what oh I didn't mean to do that
okay hold on let me get another
l
e
for
for for
you know what I want to try to
do I want to just
say this is my
startup
um when writing Julia code write it in
my style
[Music]
no no no no no I'm going
no I feel like you can correct it so
now okay I we can just move on so I
don't know what this
does split pass all right yeah
so wait what does this do why is this so
long let me just
write I need a
paper
okay
uh you keep track of your current
layer um and you keep track
of you don't need to keep track of XY
and you don't need to keep track of so
literally all you need to keep track of
is z
so as you're going through this you're
saying okay I start at layer
zero okay then I go to layer
two then
one and then
this
um so
it's uh
what I want to know is
like in this
example um or in gcode in general does
the
e um fully finished before it moves on
or
like when the line contains both
movement
yeah okay so all we need are the lines
really and then we just need to know
when the interrupt happens and the
interrupt happens if there's a G1 with
XY but no
e so this splits the
path for
[Music]
dude someone did
this
for
for for
come
D it's hot
hot yep for
okay in my style of writing Julia write
a function that makes sure that
movements in Z and movements in X and Y
are mutually
exclusive and then uh test
it dude what the
hell dude no that's not
no make that like way short you clearly
didn't get my style go simple dude this
is insane how many lines and comments
and don't even type it
h i would type
it it should just be um
okay it should
work oh
[__] what's up
bro oh my God okay uh isn't there a
thing for
that okay check
moves wait what happened
oh
yeah wait actually we don't need that
wait in startup don't we need to
do wait don't I just have to do
this let's kill
Julia M uh
n wait oh wait I think that was in my
start
up dude coating is so
slow I should check out some of these AI
code Ed
dude does it stop there it stops there
right okay
wait what is this
return oh that okay wait
wait dude why am I doing this okay
okay there's a variable called G's which
is all the g1's uh as a vector just
write the code that tells me if it's all
good if the Z is always mutually
exclusive I don't know why I'm being so
like slow right
now all right that's
it in G's
oh
really
wait so I got the error um tell me what
line it happened on or like what string
it was so I can search it in the actual
G-Code file
oh my God bro oh
wait oh G g1's is what we
want oh really where is that this is uh
we're reading this one right now
oh you know what it is
um but actually now that I'm thinking
about it we don't really
need we need to store Z state but we
don't
um we don't need a different iate by
layers because the sweep path doesn't I
mean to handle this case The Sweep path
doesn't really care
about uh where it's going it can move in
whatever Direction it
wants and so can the printer so
um instead the procedure is
um keep a to keep a a running you know
remember the uh
PA it's just what is it okay can we look
at the other
Z's cuz I I'm pretty sure in the other Z
oh actually
no wait what's an instance I'm sure that
there's a um what's a big code what's
a it's like a Beni or
something well whatever we don't really
need to do it
so but see oh wait actually no see in
this case there's no
Extrusion so it moved a little
bit it moved up by less than point oh
wait no this is uh it moved
over a little bit and it switched
layers that's probably it like rounding
a corner you know what actually can we
um I'm pretty sure excuse me I'm pretty
sure you can
like see it I forget
how um wait so what we want to do
actually is uh prepare
add rust print Sim tests we're doing
square right now because I don't think
that you can um load a G-Code into
it but
so can't you like
visualize the path or something like
that I feel like I've seen
that
um is there let's just
ask is there a way to visualize the
bamboo Studio slicer and like how the
actual to path is moving
wait oh do you just do this but this
isn't exactly this doesn't really tell
me well maybe well oh wait does it seems
is probably the start and end so it
either moves it probably moves
like and then it oh and then it shifts
over cuz were we looking at the
beginning I don't know we're kind of far
in it's it's sort of hard to tell
um okay so that assumption is wrong we
um but all we need to do
is keep track of when e basically e is
the
flag so you keep track of the
position
and so like if e starts so if e in
s
then or capital E
then uh then
push the uh
XY and so wait
so okay but in this case what's
happening is this path is from X N minus
one y XYZ
yeah there probably is a case where it's
[Music]
extruding oh it's those wait
um so this case this case it's not
extruding it is just moving in three
directions but what I want to know
is well I'm just curious
if if e ever happens
with X Y or
Z write the code to answer the question
does does the printer ever extrude while
it's moving in z
okay but I kind of want a big program
because I feel
like oh really
wait have it like the other one print
out the line that it's that's
offending okay I mean I really could not
give a
crap about this code because we are is
it G's or is it g1's this is
g1's so yeah so that's fine right it's
the
uh
yeah damn dude when it's hot out I can
pound
lacro just so hot
out I love it though I love it dude I'm
walking around like a freaking l it's
insane okay
so
um great so
if
okay if e is in
s okay you start
up you go to like a z and you're storing
that say then when you start extruding
when's the first
e okay it
retracts right here it's so oh wait
actually can we do this in the is this
the square
Oh
e f we could just also do feed rate I
don't really care about
that
presumably we could use that to
like I don't know start to do bet more
flow rate
calculations um but like how much
material is actually being
added uh but that complicates The Sweep
by a lot because you would have to do a
um you'd have to do like a sweepy loft
where you kind of have like a some sort
of curve that describes how much it's
going like this going in and
out
um okay yeah so
so if e is in there and it's the
first okay um if the last
command is
not
um e Make A New Path
otherwise
um uh yeah append this coordinate to the
last
path but it has you have to store both
right because let's say you're the new
guy make New Path by
storing
Tuple of
wait yeah
before and
after uh
chords append this chord
pair SL pa okay we'll call that a path
segment
or what you could do and if you didn't
want to store a tuple for a path segment
you would just store if e is in
here you could if
e then you
could
append PA n minus
one and then
append uh
PA and then then you don't have to store
tupal this is the no Tuple one and so
then you just do
this
PA I or n okay
okay so you just have P's equals empty
list then you go in and you
see and and you have
pass
Cur equals 0 0 0 then it gets set and
so parse gcode if
XY well first if it's e
yeah the first thing you can always do
is just try to
update
position and keep track of the the last
position and the current position
and
then take your
position then if
wait how do you know if you're in a path
already you just know by the last one
so so if last
e so if the last command was also an
extrusion then you so and then you do
curve path
okay
so now how do you know the
break if there's an
e is it ever doing an e where it's
not doing X and Y did I already check
that I
forget do 3D printers ever
I think it's literally the first
one
so that's a case of it extrud extruding
but it doesn't move
so in that
case the last path is zero and the
current path is zero but there is a
path so the first one is going to be
0000000000
0 okay and then you okay so
that's the first path then the second
path okay then it does a
G1 I'm trying to figure out if we if
this
path I think it's going to be considered
part of that one cuz this that shouldn't
break the continuous stream
of because that just says how fast it's
moving so that means
that so is all we're trying to use to
determine whether or not
it like here this is where it would
break is you move up to there then you
pull it
back then you go to
somewhere so
here yeah so here you you have to do a
uh if e is
actually uh greater than zero that's
sort of what you need you know is if e
and and E greater than zero e Val or
something
so um
so yeah so this one is just
moving and then it does a little it does
a little bit of its own which is kind of
weird but it shouldn't matter so okay
so you need to remember if the last
gcode the last gcode that that move
moved it need to know if need to
know if the
last G1 that
moved had
Extrusion had Extrusion greater than
zero
so this one it pulled it back oh wait no
but um now that's actually
interesting
because in this case actually no
material is getting extruded right
because
uh what is going
on is that enough context
yeah man okay so this is actually deeper
than I thought because it pulled it back
then it moved and it put it back to
its
thing oh that's okay so you actually do
need to keep uh so you need to
remember to
log the e
position but when it whenever
but
whenever greater than
zero keep it at
zero so you just do a
Max a Max of e zero and then you know if
it's negative so that's fine because
Max or a
Min you do a Min sorry and uh
so that flattens it all out because
you're assuming that if you're going so
yeah okay so if we did like an e minus
10 and then E1 E1 E1 we should still not
have that case so in this
case the path
[Music]
breaks the path breaks in this scenario
and what does that mean so that means
that here if e is less than one
zero
um we
just we just switch we append so yeah if
e is less than zero
append the current
path to
uh all
paths and then say curb
path
equals okay so how do we put this in
English
um we want to read a G-Code
file and split it into paths
paths where material is being
extruded I wonder I wonder if you give
it just
that write a code in Julia wait
actually write code to read in a G-Code
file uh filter out all of the filter or
keep only the ones that start with G1
commands uh
then uh split the g1s into paths where
material is being
extruded and so you're storing the
positions in the paths of the the tool
head
it doesn't have the F so I'm wondering
if I feel like maybe that's
fine but is there every one where e is
missing there is right there are xys
where it's just
yeah like this the first one so I'm
wondering if that Rex is right but let's
just test it
out split Path stop
p and this is going to be
called uh
data Square ring
Square oh
slic what is it called sliced plate
one
okay so I think I need to do like it's
like
this how do you start this thing run
cell
oh it's not data it's
tests okay wait can I
just
uh is that right dude
wait also why isn't it storing the
full
position it starts with G1
so what does this give
you okay
so G
data and we're
extruding
yeah okay but you it's kind of annoying
because you still have to do Recon
Direction so I'll ask it to rewrite just
always do like a left merge or however
you do it uh to just always give
everything except with the option of e
right no so the output should
only oh
if Extrusion ends becomes zero or
missing so this doesn't do anything to
assume that when it's negative so
okay so let's find instances of the
Extrusion end I think that this
was this was one
right so um
okay
so I
think
okay this is almost right except it uh
doesn't actually you need to keep track
of even though e is relative uh often
times what it'll do when it's changing a
position without uh extruding it'll pull
the extruder back back by um like8 and
then pull it forward so you need to when
you're keeping track of the extruder you
need to do a Min Min zero of NX so
uh and then so then when you're checking
the criteria for uh whether or not to
make A New Path you need to also not
just check that it's equal to zero but
that it's uh or missing but less than
zero
hey I it might have it might give me a
dumbass
[Music]
thing that shouldn't that didn't change
at all
yeah so it's zero and then you take them
in yeah I feel like that's
good okay now we just needed
uh oh wait uh
I don't I don't
care just run it oh but you do need to
do the
thing okay wait did it do
it what
test Square ring sliced plate 1.g
code why is this now not doing
anything
okay keep the like code Block
demarcations in but also separate out
the reading of the file with the
processing so that I can print it out
cuz right now this returned no paths and
I don't know why
dude should I get another bro three in
one day my OD on
lroy oops
okay isn't it shift enter
there we
go why isn't it printing anything
though what is going on I feel like this
thing is like
dude why is it so bad
to I don't understand dud what if I just
did
this is that that's the F
ones let's see does the F matter
where my G's where my G's at where my
G's at okay
so I don't think these FS
actually mean
anything so we're good with that
that's so weird
though where's this one
wait 108
point oh
what wait what no way
that literally
is that's insane what the hell
wait am I am I tripping
okay all right fixes the
thing I don't like the Rex
bro that's fine but okay that's fine
dude is it doing anything
okay
wait that might be good dude we might be
good enough to do
that XY why doesn't it do Z that just
cuz Z is not there so you need to keep
track of
Z okay so now what do you have to do you
have to take the
paths Okay so
I would prefer if the
output instead of just storing like the
new data or whatever um or maybe you
could add do something that adds on to
the Extrusion paths but I want to know
for the position the absolute position
meaning it has the whole Tuple of XY z e
for
every or just XYZ for for all the points
in the path because right now there's
many cases where you have X and you have
y but you don't have Z so I just want to
fill it in so that I can use them as
actual
coordinates and it could keep I said
Tuple but you know I hope it knows that
I just want
it so that should be ex that is exactly
the the
same hopefully hopefully this works so
we should do a little test we should
okay so parse line parse line parse line
parse
line Extrusion path the first path so
can we go
to
this where's the
here so wait what the
heck what dude please tell me that's not
parsing okay
dang dude why does code always take so
much longer than I it's like so simple
man let's just give it an example
dude okay so at this point okay but then
this wait we should go to
um what is it jeez wait is this
right I think this is the old
one so it's so it's this oops
so it should still update its position
right P Land Park wait where's the most
recent
one maybe the first thing to do is just
convert it into absolute positions
fully and then you keep the E along with
it so yeah so
you all right so you get a list of
dick all pass with e
being a
Min
EI Z
wait do you want
that dude why is this code being so much
harder than it is to
uh like this should be easy
man
for
[Music]
for for
okay let's just
um Step through
okay so these this is all of it so now
we just need to
okay this is the square one
so okay so we're just going to act like
the computer so we start out we think
we're at 0 0
0 e is zero
f is zero okay we see the first
one this is going to be
g 1 Z5
f5000 so this becomes
5000 and Z becomes five and then all the
rest are still at
zero okay and then so what should we do
here is
because oh wait and
um so wait we need to assume that e is
zero
here but
because EI i -
one is equal to
zero or
what is it it's
because EI I minus
one plus e of I
is less than or equal to
zero we don't
don't
add to a
path okay so what is our state we have
this then we
have current path
we have all
paths empty list then we have current
path which could be
unset it could be
nothing but whatever we could just
assume there's going to be at least one
pass fun and you just don't add the last
one or something like that okay okay
so because e of i - 1 plus e of
I don't add a
path is less than
zero so this is when I say e
okay so we're the first
line we assume e is zero so and E is
still zero so we don't need to add to a
path so we just keep going okay fine now
we get to
a don't add a path
and don't add a path
save position
however save the
position so this is sort of the uh
okay now we get a uh z e
minus8 and a f1800
okay
so e i -1 + EI I is equal to -8 Which is
less than or equal to zero so we don't
add to add to
Cur path
okay all right so and then we we so now
becomes
minus so uh so now
becomes 0
5 minus8
1800 okay
now we have
the G1
x92
y92
f7000 okay
so
now e so the E condition is still met so
don't do anything with the path
so now but we do update our position so
now we becomes 92
925 -8
7,000
okay
then
the
[Music]
Z4
Z2 are the same
thing so then now we just add
um 92
92.2 minus8
7,00 Great okay now we get to an more
interesting one now we get G1
e.8 uh F
1800 so
here um
right yeah yeah yeah so this condition
of doing the sum is actually the right
way to do it but then when you set the
uh the position you still want the
Min okay so we see here uh this EI i - 1
plus e of I is is is equal to
zero and so and so less than equal to
zero is true so that means we don't do
anything with the path we're not
extruding
um but when we
set okay when we when we set
e EI or wait when we set E I don't know
how we're going to do this
uh it's Min of
zero
uh EI plus EI -1 +
EI so now we get zero but then here's
the special part
is um
all right and then we continue that's it
so seven or
1800 92
92.2
okay I know this is just so boring but
it's it's it's necessary all right I'm
going to flip over the format so okay
G1 okay we can skip the f
okay so we get
x93 y
e04 okay so here is the okay so now
ei- -1 plus e of I is greater than
zero so what we need to do now
is check is Cur
path is empty curve
path if is empty curve
path uh
append to curve
path the list of
of the last position it was in and the
current
position so last
PA
equals um 92
92 uh what was it uh Z was like was Z
zero Z is 0.2
then zero then like 1,800
so wait first we need to set current
position and so and last position gets
sent at the end of
this past pass current
pass okay
um so now we are we have have current p
uh current path is something so Cur so
there there you
go I guess what we need to know when we
end a path
if e is not
in we could just say yeah if if
e not in s or what whatever we're
calling
uh
then curve
path
equals the empty list and
if or is it is it that
simple oh yeah so if
no yes it's the else condition here if
eius one minus E of I is or plus e of I
is less
than so this
is else
if is less than or equal to zero
then we need
to we need to end the
path so then we say
push PS
um curve
path then we set curve path to the empty
set empty
list
uh okay so that seems good okay so where
were we so this is just some extra stuff
so we had we did this
but
so
oh oh wait
um for
wait what wait
um when do we do the um
okay so yeah so in there then we can
also
um set EI to zero so then that means
that at the end of this thing we are at
91.2 0
okay so what's the next one so at this
point let's just write down what we have
we
have um all PS is still the empty list
we have
Cur path is equal
to the Past position which is
92 uh Tuple of 929
2.2 comma 93
91 uh
2 and then for the paths
themselves you don't need to
store so then we have e IUS one is equal
to
zero e and then we don't have EI yet so
that's before we start the parsing
[Music]
um okay is that all the state that we
need well let's just run the the program
okay so this is the state at so we did
this line now we're doing this
line okay so we have a G1 x
94 uh y
91.5
um
e02 great so that means
that first we're going
to and the current pass is 93 91.2 so at
the beginning of the function the
current and the last position are the
same but so now the first thing we do is
we set Cur
POs to be
uh
91.5 oh and z z we need to make sure get
Z is 2
still2 okay then we
check
that um so then we or so yeah I guess
the first thing is a
parse the
XY z e f dict and I guess
you this
some can be missing some
keys can be missing
right so what is it that we did when e
was not even
present well we the same condition works
so what we're saying is
that oh yeah so we just referred to last
PA so last pass is going to be zero it's
current pass is also going to be
zero so we're going to set the current
position
to
be yeah uh 94
91 2 and then
0.02 0.02 this is e
here
and okay so now now that we have the
current position check
that uh uh last
POS 4
plus Cur POS
4 is greater than zero if it
is if Cur
path is
empty then we're going to append the
current
path so this is the case where it breaks
no this is this is the case where we're
starting a new path so this is the New
Path right in this case this fails so or
this is true this is uh
false so then else we just want
to um
we want to set Cur POS
4 equal to the Min of
Z in this case we can just set it to
zero so we just equal to
zero then push
um curve
path Cur
PA great so what's the next thing that
we need to
do so what have we done at this
point we've added to the current
path and we've set the position now all
we have to do
is uh
last PA
equals current
pass is that really
it so okay so then we go through here
and we have this big long
path all the way down to here okay so
now let's assume so what's our state
here our state is we
have current path is something it's like
long eius one is zero or well we don't
even need this this is stored in oh no
we do need the
Min wait
no wait so so elsewhere we need to
okay we we need to zero e or we need to
do the Min thing after the
uh
okay we're almost ready to write this
code it's getting
close it's taking a while but it's
getting close
okay what what was that command so now
we got a
G1 e
minus8 for
okay I'm pretty sure I'm
ready
for
for for
oh yeah let's
go all right this is the code bro this
is the real code this is what's going on
okay okay so function does
it okay what does it take
G's now we don't want to do it like
this all right so we got G's
right
uh what do I call it
GA G is equal GA this is all we need
okay
um start or
let's see before anything
else start PA equals what is this going
to be it's going to
be Z or let's do it as a list
0 0 0 0 Z
five
okay
then um last
pass equals
uh okay what else do we need all
PS
um we'll just say Cur path equals the
S and so now we're sort of set
up now we take G is equal to gs1 this is
our first
command now um
oh wait um
Julia code uh that finds the first
semicolon and then oh it takes a string
it finds the first semicolon and it
drops everything after that and Returns
the first part
okay
great okay great and then what we need
is great so now
so now what we want to do
is well we could just do it in
here what is that
about okay okay
um is that going to work oh it doesn't
do it like I
wanted do we have
a okay great
dude I got to get co-pilot this is
driving me insane that I can't okay well
whatever let's just
um do
this okay X Y is it oh is it like this
okay this is going to
be
um two 3 4
5 there should be no other ones right if
we go to the and we look at a
G1
G1 Su I don't think we have anything I
don't
think actually really you never really
see five AIS 3D
printers
okay all right I'm not going to use CH
GPT I'm just going to keep going because
this should work
so
function update curb p
takes an a oh wait it takes an
A's and it does
this takes an
A's curve POS and a and it returns curve
PA and okay
great we have a we have curve
PA or we don't
wait start pass curve
pa okay
um what
what what
is it just the other way
around
oh that's fine fine that's fine that's
[Music]
fine I probably could have done that
faster oh
[__]
okay
perfect
okay what's the next step now that we
have
set the current
position we want to
if last PA
4 for
oh uh
we need to do
this before we modify the
path
okay oh wait we could probably do this
here
okay I think that's all of
that then no matter what we're going to
do curb POS
4 is equal to Min Z
curve Min e
okay
okay okay and then all we have to do is
last pass
equals Cur pass but wait where do
we okay so now we don't have any of the
logic
of okay so if so okay so now we need the
else part of
this if there's no so
hopefully that'll modify it right I feel
like it
should otherwise you just don't do
anything
right so it's less than or equal to zero
Okay so
so this is going to be or wait
does one wait do I want to do that does
it uh so you set this
up then you do 4 G and
G's tab this in then you do end and then
you return all PS
where am I calling
int
oh what
wait see that's
wrong wait wait wait wait wait we need
to set
right
so if it's so this is the case where
it's less than or equal to zero so this
is Cur
e IUS one
plus e of I is less than or equal to
zero so basically New
Path
right or wait uh sorry well
wait
okay wait we need
to run through it
okay so in this case yeah we didn't do
this one
so where are we we are
gsq we are right here
so so we retract it we set set our
position oh and then okay wait
no no no no we need to
so this is the only one where we is is
relative
so last POS four
or
wait yeah this is right so we don't
actually need to
do this
so this
could this is either zero yeah this is
less than C
pass
for for
I don't think this is right
still first off it's not updating X
really oh wait we need to do
this right
okay so let's get so we can close
this
okay 5 minus8
oh
wait wait what's going on here what the
heck okay that's goofy as
heck
so how is that happening
so keros is now basically what
e
oh but but otherwise it just keeps it as
the last
one which is good for that except
if it doesn't find an
e
wait if it doesn't find an
e then we need to set that to zero
update this so if it doesn't find an
e then uh it sets it to zero
okay so can we uh wait can we do this
okay
4.2 no see this is wrong because it
needs to be minus8 here
with the last
PA so here the last
pass or the last e
so this
fails so it goes into here and it says
the current position is equal
to oh wait can we
disable this for
now oops
they're always the same
just in case I I think it does mutate it
but
um so at this point let's do the let's
see the info of
that for
okay I'm getting lost in the soup
bro not the sauce the soup
okay so last pass is zero
is it like a weird
I don't know is that it there's no way
that's
it I'm doing something hella
dumb oh
wait okay I still think that that's a
bug right because
you do so you set it to
55000 you set e so it was a weird copy
thing that's so
crazy
okay um
so that should so line three here should
not go to
zero so where is it being set to zero in
this instance we take this thing
okay so in this
wait we've just updated why did we
update that to zero because we didn't
find it yeah this is not right
the current e this is the current e
relative okay this is the current e
relative so right right
here
uh e is relative
still I think that this is right
right see okay see when it does this so
what we want to
do is cut this and put it
here and then we get the actual correct
transitions so everything is all good
now so you see here minus point8
minus80 okay so let's see what are what
are the paths look like
92 wait hold
on wait
92 what the heck
dude what is going on
here right this is all of the
transitions right so
I think I can just do
this but um
why is this so
weird Okay so these are like the
Transitions okay goes to
zero oh
um for
okay we are
here then we retract
it then we go to X and Y then we go to Z
then we go to Z then we put push it back
to the
front Okay then this these are identical
right or wait these are
identical this is the
feed or I equals 1
one uh
info okay so where we we were right so
this is six
okay then seven these are the same
right except for yeah the feed rate
great now this is the first
one so here
okay and
then there let's do
this for
I forget how to do just normal
debugging I don't I don't think I like
this
one all right let's try it
does it
work whatever um
right where do we get that it's
um for
okay so what does it do so it appends
these and then it goes to here
yep
okay can we just do
this is that true why does it skip so
much that's so weird
is it that
one yeah
wait I'm just going to start over
I feel like we're getting
close I was I really want to finish this
before I have to go to class and I have
to make food bro okay so let's scroll up
Scroll up Scroll up Scroll up Scroll
up wait
what oh what the hell
okay so it has to be this
branch and at this point curb p
[Music]
um right
if e was not found then it should stay
the
same I'm pretty sure that's
good oh wait we need to do
this hello hello
dude what
okay wait can we just go back to the
top okay adding to existing path so we
have the
wait curb path
oh it's this is career
path wait what
why doesn't
it don't I have to can't I do an
outer but then I don't understand why
the one
yeah so this is
wrong
um but why though bro what the hell is
going on here
adding to existing path
H dude what is going on
[Music]
bro
for e
now I want to try
to I want to try to
um how do you stop the
debugger for
but dude
that's wait wait oh my God
all right whatever let's just run it
all for
this is still wrong
last pass will always be le last pass
will always be less than or equal to
zero
if e was found
god what the
[__] why I don't even know how that
happens okay so let's just run one at a
time what is the
problem okay so the behavior is correct
up until here and even this is correct
so then we leave
this we run
this okay then we set last PA equal
to this so now last
PA is
93 whatever or
here we split then we update curve
with what command are we
running we running this one right that's
where things get
wrong
yes okay now we're on nine so we're
trying to run
G1 x94 y 91
e02 okay so and what what is last pass
at this point
it's
91.2
okay so we update the current position
so now
curb so curb PA should
be same there so now we update it so now
Cur
is um
9491 and then e is in here so e will be
0. 2
uh this is0 2 and this is 0.02 for the
Extrusion then whatever okay so now and
E found e
found
true all right so we're jumping into
this
branch and this
is
true we set the current position to
zero is the current path empty what is
curent path at this
point wait what
um oh wait can we just
do okay let's just I want to copy this
log
MD I don't I don't know what I'm doing
in my life okay but so now I want to
rerun the whole
thing where are we we're right
here no so it doesn't change it at
all for
okay
where does it end where did
I the end of eight this is where things
go wrong yeah so let's just
go wait the end of eight wait we
want
oops for
all for
should I try it
that's what I'm saying but what the hell
is going
on what
that's so weird
okay I don't want to give it the whole
thing
dude I think it's a scoping issue
but it's so unsatisfying that I feel
like I can't get the right
Behavior for
what did it change I want to
see wait
what for
oh
nice dude this might be close enough for
me I I really want to get to the
sweeping part of
this cuz we need to design the profile
and that's probably going to take a a
bit oh my [__] [__] God bro I don't
want to do that I don't want to do
that
e
for for
okay
[__] it let's just do it let's just say
that this is
right
okay 92.0
one7 then what's
PS3 this say
105 um
okay so that's fine I mean I don't
really care
if what we can do is we can just drop
those wait but now
oh um
[Music]
I think it's the feed rates can we just
drop all the lines
that I'm just
curious okay wait can we um
no why is that
why isn't this adding to the current
path see that's not
God damn
bro okay what I think we should do is
switch
gears we're going to take
PS2 and we are just going
to sweep
okay it didn't get it but that's
fine I have this list of coordinates now
I want to uh use these coordinates
as
uh as a profile for a sweep in
freead free
Cad and
um using
python in freak CAD
I'm like so down to just do this
because okay so does it tell me how
to
new
macro is this is the python so I can
just print this in here
right wait
actually I should that that should be
fine uh let's just try
it how can I see
it something didn't happen right
[Music]
wait let's just
um o
wire print wire
oh my
God
H yes so that's correct
is there a length Clos should be false
okay uh curve edges
length
okay
so um
okay now sweep uh a centered rectangle
like that has
Dimensions uh where the to Total height
of the rectangle that is going to be
used to sweep that profile is2
mm oh actually no no we don't want it to
be a centered rectangle we want the
bottom of the rectangle to be at um yal
Z
no sorry the top of the rectangle is
yals
0 and um but then you want to sweep
across the center of the top along the
ri along the uh the path the
wire and the width of
[Music]
the um uh sweep
profile is going to
[Music]
be4 mm
I can't believe I can't believe I'm so
bad at riding the gold
bro I feel like this might be right
though
right
make
line can
we wire edges
I feel like this is the part that's not
working does this
error wait so what
is there a get
object for
that's just the name of it right what is
the actual data type of it it's just
wait how do I get
wait
uh what is
this oh wait wait does that add
selection a name to sweep path
well that's
cool wait what was it come on
subname point
um yeah how do you make a okay wait
let's okay let's relax so how does this
work how do we pan bro what is
the oh you hold Alt
you hold
shift oh oh that's a crazy system bro no
I want middle Mouse button to do this I
don't like this this is too much for
me it's actually really cool but you got
to get good at it okay
so uh what we want to
do
is okay
wait okay we got to remember how freead
works okay
x z
plane wait
what so okay so this is locked in like
that so
this and this do we see our selection
our midpoint where's midpoint
Point wait these are our
constraints wait how do I get a
dimension
what oh there we go okay so we want to
make
this 4
mm and this we want to make 2
mm then oh wait what did I
do then the distance
wait how do how do I do
a oh my God this thing is so
bad you're not allowed
to oh you can okay so this is going to
be2 holy [__]
um please please
work
fantastic obviously that didn't
work wait which one is that
one there's this point two and there's
this point two
freeat is pretty sick okay wait what if
I try this
now I se I select this line I select
this point and I say d
oh bro I got to go to class okay
[__] damn dude everything takes longer
than you expect it to okay wait so now
we want to finish this SK
okay wait what do I want to do exactly
okay just show me with the guey how to
basically make a a a series of points in
space um and then use a small
rectangular profile to sweep along that
where it creates material along the
sweep
switch to the part
workbench so first off control
new okay go to the part
workbench okay
part create
Primitives select
Point create as many points okay fine 0
0 location
okay I think that we just want to do
this okay so now how do I see
okay how do
I how do I see all of the points
okay part make a
wire
part make face from
wires for
right it's not in there
right for
[__]
okay oh God I really can't believe it
took me this long dude
well all right well tomorrow
then I got something cool tomorrow but I
can't do it on
stream um